# V3-M2

### 1) Introduction and components of balance sheet

Assets = Liabilities + Equity.

- **Assets** (A) are what the company owns (or controls). More formally, assets are resources controlled by the company as a result of past events and from which future economic benefits are expected to **flow *to* the entity**.

- **Liabilities** (L) are what the company owes. More formally, liabilities rep- resent obligations of a company arising from past events, the settlement of which is expected to result in a future outflow of economic benefits *from* the entity.

- **Equity** (E) represents the owners’ residual interest in the company’s assets after deducting its liabilities. Commonly known as **shareholders’ equity** or **owners’ equity**, equity is determined by subtracting the liabilities from the assets of a company, giving rise to the accounting equation: **A – L = E** or **A = L + E**.

An item should only be recognized in financial statements only if it is probable that any future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to or from the entity and if the item has a cost or value that can be measured with reliability

is as of 截至

the balance sheet information is as of the last day of their respective fiscal year

A company’s ability to pay for its short term operating needs relates to the concept of **liquidity**.

current 流动的，non-current 非流动

### 2) current and non-current classification

A company’s **operating cycle** is the average amount of time that elapses between acquiring inventory and collecting the cash from sales to customers.

**current asset** : within operating cycle, or one year

**non-current assets**:  not be sold or used up within a year or one operating cycle

Liabilities expected to be settled within one year or within one operating cycle of the business, whichever is greater, after the reporting period are classified as **current liabilities**

- The excess of current assets over current liabilities is called **working capital**.

尽管充足的营运资金是必不可少的，但应避免过多的营运资金，以便可以在其他地方更有效地使用的资金不会被不适当地占用。

### 3) liquidity based presentation

With a liquidity-based presentation, all assets and liabilities are presented broadly in order of liquidity. Entities such as **banks** are candidates to use a liquidity-based presentation.

venture 企业

### 4） CURRENT ASSETS: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND TRADE RECEIVABLES

material重要的

**Cash Equivalents**

Financial assets, in general, are measured and reported at either **amortised cost** or **fair value**.

- Amoritised cost: historical cost (initially recognised cost) of the asset adjusted for amortisation and impairment.

- fair value is based on an exit price, the price received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between two market participants at the measurement date.

Examples of cash equivalents are demand deposits with banks and highly liquid investments (such as US Treasury bills, commercial paper, and money market funds) with original maturities of three months or less.

**Marketable Securities**有价证券

Examples of marketable securities include treasury bills, notes, bonds, and equity securities, such as common stocks and mutual fund shares.

Marketable securities are also financial assets and include investments in debt or equity securities that are traded in a public market, and whose value can be determined from price information in a public market. 

**Trade Receivables**应收账款

amounts owed to a company by its customers for products and services already delivered. 

reported at net realizable value, an approximation of fair value, based on estimates of collectability. 

allowance for doubtful accounts呆账备抵

The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects the company’s estimate of the amount of receivables that will ultimately be uncollectible. 

When specific receivables are deemed to be uncollectible, they are written off by reducing accounts receivable and the allowance for doubtful accounts. 

written off 核销

The allowance for doubtful accounts is called a **contra account** because it is netted against (i.e., reduces) the balance of accounts receivable, which is an asset account.

concerns:

1) recievable relative to sales
2) allowance for doubtful account
3) credit risk



### 5) INVENTORIES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS

Inventories are physical products that will eventually be sold to the company’s custom- ers, either in their current form (finished goods) or as inputs into a process to man- ufacture a final product (raw materials and work-in-process). 

Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value (NRV)可变现净值

NRV is the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to complete the sale.

NRV = sellingprice - completion - sale cost

carrying amount  账面金额

**Other Current Asset**

The amounts shown in “other current assets” reflect items that are individually not material enough to require a separate line item on the balance sheet and so are aggregated into a single amount.

**Prepaid expenses** are normal operating expenses that have been paid in advance.预付费用

### 6) current liabilities

**Current liabilities** are those liabilities that are expected to be settled in the entity’s normal operating cycle, held primarily for trading, or due to be settled within 12 months after the balance sheet date. 流动负债是指预计在主体的正常经营周期内清偿、主要为交易而持有或将于资产负债表日后 12 个月内清偿的负债。

**Trade payables**, also called **accounts payable**, are amounts that a company owes its vendors for purchases of goods and services. 

Financial liabilities that are due within one year or the operating cycle, whichever is longer, appear in the current liability section of the balance sheet. 

Financial liabilities include borrowings such as bank loans, notes payable(应付票据) (which refers to financial liabil- ities owed by a company to creditors, including trade creditors and banks, through a formal loan agreement), and commercial paper. 

**Accrued expenses** (also called accrued expenses payable, accrued liabilities, and other non-financial liabilities) are expenses that have been recognized on a company’s income statement but not yet been paid as of the balance sheet date.应计费用（也称为应计应付费用、应计负债和其他非金融负债）是已在公司损益表中确认但截至资产负债表日尚未支付的费用。

**Deferred income** (also called **deferred revenue** or **unearned revenue**) arises when a company receives payment in advance of delivery of the goods and services associated with the payment.

### 7)  NON-CURRENT ASSETS: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INVESTMENT PROPERTY

**Property, plant, and equipment**

**Property, plant, and equipment** (PPE) are tangible assets that are used in company operations and expected to be used (provide economic benefits) over more than one fiscal period. 

Depreciation and depletion refer to the process of allocating (rec- ognizing as an expense) the cost of a long-lived asset over its useful life. allocate the cost, 分配成本



- The higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell, and its value in use.资产的公允价值减去销售成本与其使用价值中的较高者。
- Value in use: The present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset.

预期从资产中获得的未来现金流量的现值。

**Investment Property** 投资资产

Some property is not used in the production of goods or services or for administrative purposes. Instead, it is used to earn rental income or capital appreciation (or both). Under IFRS, such property is considered to be **investment property**.

### 8) NON-CURRENT ASSETS: INTANGIBLE ASSETS

**Intangible assets** are identifiable non-monetary assets without physical substance.无形资产

**Identifiable Intangibles**

patents, trademarks, copyrights, franchises, licenses, and other rights

### 9) NON-CURRENT ASSETS: GOODWILL

When one company acquires another, the purchase price is allocated to all the identi- fiable assets (tangible and intangible) and liabilities acquired, based on fair value. If the purchase price is greater than the acquirer’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, the excess amount is recognized as an asset, described as **goodwill**. 

**Economic goodwill** is based on the economic performance of the entity

**accounting goodwill** is based on accounting standards and is reported only in the case of acquisitions. 

### 10) NON-CURRENT ASSETS: FINANCIAL ASSETS

IFRS define a financial instrument as a **contract** that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity, and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.

金融商品，金融工具

fair value or amortised cost to measure